[AUDIO LOGO]
>> I'm a recovering
professor of medicine.
I spent 20 years in academia,
training and teaching future
physicians, and quickly
realized that the way
we're delivering health
care today isn't working.
So it's really an
honor and a pleasure
to be with you today, and really
get straight to the masses
and teach you how to
take care of yourself.
Because it's clear
to me that physicians
and the American
health care system
isn't taking care of anyone.
So I've spent, again, 20 years.
My research program
has been trying
to answer four
fundamental questions.
How does the human
body make nitric oxide?
What goes wrong in people
that can't make it?
What are the clinical
consequences and symptoms
that manifest?
Then how do we fix this.
So I've published over
100 peer reviewed papers.
Got several dozen
issued patents.
Given several hundred
lectures around the world.
So I've spent the past
20 years in the trenches.
And I don't know if I've ever
given a 10-minute lecture
on nitric oxide.
So you're going to
feel like you're
drinking from a fire hydrant.
But fundamentally,
what I want to share
with you is that people get sick
for two reasons and two reasons
only: Your body is
missing something
that it needs or it's exposed to
something that it doesn't need.
And mechanistically,
the end result of that
is you decrease your body's
production of nitric oxide,
you get inflammation, oxidative
stress, and immune dysfunction.
Those are the hallmarks of
every single chronic disease
from Alzheimer's, diabetes,
autoimmune disease.
So if we can understand
how to restore
the production of nitric oxide,
give the body what's missing,
eliminate from the body
what it doesn't need,
then the body heals itself.
We're regenerative
beings by nature.
And I just want to show you this
to show you that we can actually
look inside humans and
really look at the root
cause of the problems.
And on the left, you
have a spec scan.
So spec scans tell
us how well perfused
the organ is, in this
particular case, the brain.
On the right, you've
got a former NFL player
that has
post-concussion syndrome
and chronic traumatic
encephalopathy.
So you can see these
holes in the brain
are reflective of
focal ischemia, which
means there's not enough blood
flow to that particular region
of the brain.
They develop
neurological dysfunction.
Same thing happens
in a heart attack.
If you have an
embolus or a thrombus
in the coronary arteries and
you don't restore the blood flow
in a timely manner, then people
die or develop heart failure.
But if you can restore the blood
flow, in this particular case,
within 60 minutes,
you can maintain
normal physiological
function of the heart.
So no consequences or damage
from that heart attack.
If you go a little
bit deeper, you
can see that even neurons
from neuropathy, motor
or sensory neurons have to
have adequate blood supply.
The microvessels
that supply that,
when they become damaged
or dysfunctional,
you develop neurological
disease or neuropathy.
So the whole point here is that
every single chronic disease
is characterized by
decreased blood flow.
If you can restore
blood flow and perfusion
to these organs,
tissues, and cells,
then you can correct
many conditions.
So how do we do this?
That's the role of our
favorite molecule nitric oxide.
It's a gas.
It's produced in the body.
Once it's produced, it's
gone in less than a second.
The challenge has been,
how do we recapitulate
nitric oxide-based
signaling in a solid dose
form of a bioactive gas?
That's been my claim to fame.
But nitric oxide is
more than a vasodilator.
It's responsible
for oxygen delivery
to every cell in the body.
When we breathe in oxygen, the
body produces nitric oxide.
Without nitric oxide, oxygen
does not come off, hemoglobin.
We witnessed this for the
past 3.5 years with COVID.
People develop hypoxemia.
You put them on mechanical in
100% oxygen, and they died.
If you just give
them nitric oxide,
we can restore their
blood oxygen saturation,
improve oxygen delivery,
and you keep patients out
of the hospital.
It's involved in every
biological function.
It's the molecule
responsible for erections
in both men and women.
You can't dilate the blood
vessels of the sex organs
if you don't get an increase
in blood flow or engorgement,
and you develop
sexual dysfunction.
It's part of our
immune system, how
we fight off invading pathogens
from viruses and bacteria.
And it's the molecule that
tells our own stem cells
to mobilize and differentiate.
So we don't lose
stem cells with age,
we lose the ability to
mobilize stem cells with age.
And broadly speaking, there's
three main objective measures
of longevity.
There's telomeres, the
ends of the chromosomes.
Shorter telomeres,
shorter lifespan.
Mitochondria, or Dave
talk about mitochondrium.
Every age-related
disease is characterized
by decreased numbers of
mitochondria and dysfunctional
mitochondria.
And then the mobilization
of resident stem cells.
And this unified theory of aging
that we put forth 20 years ago
really allows nitric oxide
as the unifying agent
because nitric oxide is what
controls all three of these.
Without nitric oxide, you
get shorter telomeres,
lower numbers of mitochondria,
and stem cells don't mobilize.
The older we get,
the less nitric oxide
we make, and this is responsible
for age-related disease.
In fact, the number one
killer of men and women
worldwide, which is
cardiovascular disease.
You lose the ability to produce
nitric oxide in the lining
of the blood vessels.
Decades later or
years later, you
start to get the
structural changes, which
we call atherosclerosis.
Then the plaque
becomes unstable.
It ruptures, and that's
heart attack and stroke.
So mechanistically,
we've understood
what causes arteries to age.
It's inflammation,
oxidative stress,
and immune dysfunction
nitric oxide controls
and regulates all of those.
And I can usually
spend 45 minutes
on taking you through the
published science on this.
But in 10 minutes, I'll
just share with you
that this is what we've learned
scientifically over the past 30
years.
And there's two ways the
body makes nitric oxide.
There's an enzyme found in
the lining of the blood vessel
that converts arginine
to nitric oxide.
And this is a five electron
oxidation reaction.
And then there's
the pathway that we
can use through diet, which
explains a Mediterranean
diet, the Japanese diet.
Every type of nutritional
epidemiological research
can be traced back to the
production of nitric oxide
through that dietary pattern.
So when we lose the ability
to make nitric oxide
from both pathways, that's
when symptoms set in
and we start to get sick.
And there's a number of
nitric oxide products
on the market put forth
by companies who have
no idea what the science is.
So as a biochemist,
we count electrons.
And if you can't count
electrons and apply this
through the
oxidation of arginine
or the reduction-- three
electron reduction of nitrate,
then you have no business being
in the nitric oxide space.
This is a study we
published years ago,
showing that the older you get,
the less nitric oxide you make.
But this doesn't
have to be the case.
We can prevent this
age-related decline
in nitric oxide
production because we now
understand the enzymology and
the biochemistry of nitric oxide
to the extent that we
can repair it and fix it.
So I'll be 50 next week, but
I have the neovascular age
of a 32-year-old.
And I'm a Scotch, drink and
meat-eating hell raising Texan.
So it doesn't have
to be this way.
So people ask me
all the time, how
do I restore nitric
oxide production?
And you only have
to do two things,
stop doing the things
that disrupt it
and start doing the
things that promote it.
And typically,
again, in detail--
but what we've discovered
is mouthwash use--
we published on this
about 10 years ago.
People use mouthwash,
kill the oral microbiome,
shut down nitric
oxide production.
There's a reason we don't
take an antibiotic every day
for the rest of our life
because of the destruction
it does on the gut microbiome.
Why would we destroy the
oral microbiome every day
with mouthwash use?
200 million Americans wake up
every morning, use mouthwash.
There's 200 million
Americans that
have an unsafe elevation
in blood pressure.
This is not coincidental.
The other issue is fluoride.
Fluoride is a neurotoxin,
it's an antiseptic,
and it kills your thyroid.
Fluoride completely kills
the oral microbiome.
So you have to get
rid of fluoride.
Use fluoride-free toothpaste,
buy a home filtration system.
There's fluoride in most
municipal water systems.
The other problem is antacids.
200 million prescriptions
written for proton pump
inhibitors every year.
These drugs are now causing
40% higher incidence of heart
attack, stroke, and Alzheimer's.
These are very dangerous drugs.
Your body cannot or will not
heal if you suppress stomach
acid production.
You can't break down
proteins into amino acids
and get peptide fragments
transported across the gut,
and you develop
autoimmune disease.
In fact, antiacids are the root
cause of foodborne allergies
and all autoimmune disease.
And then it's just common sense,
balanced diet in moderation.
I'm not a big fan
of extreme diets.
Straight vegan,
straight carnivore.
I think we need nutrients
from a diverse source.
But certainly, sugar is a toxin.
Sugar is a poison.
We need to avoid sugars.
So once you do
that, now your body
is primed to actually generate
nitric oxide on its own.
But we can facilitate
that through
moderate physical exercise,
then with some more green
leafy vegetables.
Infrared light.
I'm a big fan of
infrared saunas.
20 or 30 minutes
of sunlight a day.
First sunlight in the
morning is very beneficial.
And then when all else fails,
we have product technology
that does it for you.
So if your body can't
produce nitric oxide,
then here's where we come in.
20 years of science and a number
of published randomized peer
reviewed clinical studies.
But we made a solid dose
form of nitric oxide gas.
It's the only technology
in the world where
we generate nitric oxide gas.
If your body can't make
it, we do it for you.
But we also understand the
enzymology and the biochemistry
that we can decouple
the NOX enzyme.
Now we're improving the
body's ability to make it.
And thereby, the
certain residence time
of this lozenge in
the mouth, we're
restoring the oral microbiome.
Most pathogenic
opportunistic bacteria
are sensitive to nitric oxide.
The good, healthy,
commensal nonpathogenics
actually produce nitric oxide.
So the lozenge, by
staying in your mouth
for five to six minutes,
kills the bad guys,
restores the diversity
of the oral microbiome.
And we do this.
We do this through a
fermented beet powder.
As you heard Dave said, most
beets don't do anything.
Turn your urine and
your feces pink,
and cause a lot of anxiety.
So we ferment a beet powder.
We pre-convert it not relying
on the bacteria or the stomach
acid.
And we regenerate
nitric oxide that way.
We also have a
topical nitric oxide,
where we apply, for the
first time, nitric oxide
directly to the skin.
It improves fine lines and
wrinkles, tone, texture,
and clarity.
Again, the skin is an outward
reflection of internal health,
but we can actually
facilitate that.
Just like any
aging organ, it has
decreased blood flow, improved
collagen deposition, hydration,
fine lines and wrinkles go away.
So here are the facts.
This take-home
message, beets do not
equal nitrate save your money.
Most beets don't do anything.
Nitrate does not
equal nitric oxide.
There's a very
inefficient reduction
of this that's dependent
upon the oral microbiome.
Arginine and citrulline
products don't
work in patients with
endothelial dysfunction.
In fact, a number
of clinical studies
have shown if you give
arginine to a patient
with endothelial
dysfunction, they get worse.
So what to look for
in product technology.
Is there evidence that the
product actually works?
Can you quantify, detect, and
verify it produces nitric oxide?
Published clinical
trials, most companies
are never going to put
their dietary supplement
through a clinical trial.
They're costly.
And if it doesn't work, they're
not going to move the needle.
And then has the inventor
formulate ever published
original research?
So don't be fooled by
creative marketing, science,
and experience matter.
The greatest enemy of
knowledge is not ignorance,
it's the illusion of knowledge.
So now we have no excuse.
Get the information.
But here's the
conclusion, nitric oxide
controls and regulates blood
flow and oxygen delivery
to every cell in the body.
There's an age-related decline
that asserts its effect
on cardiovascular risk.
And we must use safe and
effective nitric oxide product
technology in order to
optimize our health.
But point blank, your body
cannot and will not heal without
nitric oxide.
So with that, thank you very
much for your attention.
[APPLAUSE]
[AUDIO LOGO]